monogamy that that's a culturally
expected even required conduct of you
know it's how it's how we view
relationships
yeah and over the last 60 years okay so
I'm gonna be never applied to men until
about 60 year old so we're never
explained had concubines men had access
to sex workers men at multiple wives
monogamy was built to imprison women to
reassure men about other with their go
to address males paternal insecurities
you knew for sure it was hurt baby you
never could know for sure it was your
baby this is what accounts for the
Jewish lineage unless she was locked up
right you only Jewish if you get another
one of the Jewish mother because you
know who the mother is you never know
who the father is right
so wasn't until in the 20th century to
go from this gendered institution in
this property transaction where the
husband was granted the gift of the
daughter that in that truck became the
wife with the dowry and all right looted
and so marriage became the the equal
sort of union of two autonomous
individuals and expectations changed
that that the same standards had to
apply to both Ferris and yeah and then
monogamy instead of extending to women
the same license that men had always
enjoyed the same latitude around
monogamy we imposed on man the same
restrictions that women had always
endured and it it's been a disaster for
marriage nothing correlates more
strongly with the rise of divorce than
imposing the monogamous model on them so
what should happen going forward
monogamish relationships fish monogamish
there are people who are in a monogamous
relationships now but who won't admit it
because of the stigma you know people
say and I often hear this from my
straight readers know there's no open
relationship lasts and the my response
is always because you only hear about
them when they failed that there are
people in successful not monogamous
relationships that you know you just
don't know you know that it's difficult
a selection effect
yes very hard to compensate have two
peoples to a straight couple who are not
monogamous because they're swinging
having threeways or somebody cheated if
they divorce everybody finds out about
the non-monogamy and blames it whether
you sometimes even
if it's irrelevant but a straight couple
who are able to stay together because
they're not monogamous nobody ever hears
about it and nobody gives it any credit
that there are couples who are together
today still not despite the fact they're
in an open relationship but because
they're in an open relationship and when
non-monogamy saves a relationship it
gets no credit when non-monogamy
destroys one it's a headline news
headlines